docs/modules/ROOT/pages/api-core.adoc, before:

= OpenZeppelin Upgrades Core API

The core logic to check for upgrade safety as well as storage layout compatibility is implemented by the package `@openzeppelin/upgrades-core`.

The package exports a standalone interface that works with https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/using-the-compiler.html#compiler-input-and-output-json-description[Solidity input and output JSON objects].

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
import { UpgradeableContract } from '@openzeppelin/upgrades-core';
```

== UpgradeableContract

This class represents the implementation for an upgradeable contract and gives access to error reports.

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
new UpgradeableContract(name, solcInput, solcOutput, opts?);
```

`opts` is an object with options as defined in xref:api-hardhat-upgrades.adoc#common-options[Common Options].

TIP: In Hardhat, `solcInput` and `solcOutput` can be obtained from the Build Info file, which itself can be retrieved with `hre.artifacts.getBuildInfo`.

=== getErrorReport

Returns a report about errors pertaining to proxied contracts, e.g. the use of `selfdestruct`.

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
contract.getErrorReport()
```

=== getStorageUpgradeReport

Compares the storage layout of an upgradeable contract with that of a proposed upgrade. Receives as an argument another instance of `UpgradeableContract`.

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
contract.getStorageUpgradeReport(upgradedContract)
```

== Report

An object that represents the results of an analysis.

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```typescript
interface Report {
  ok: boolean;
  explain(color?: boolean): string;
}
```

The field `ok` is `false` if any errors were found, and `true` otherwise.

The method `explain()` will return a message explaining the errors in detail, if any.

Commit message:

Support multiple contracts with same name (#684)
Co-authored-by: Francisco <frangio.1@gmail.com>

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/api-core.adoc, after:

= OpenZeppelin Upgrades Core API

The core logic to check for upgrade safety as well as storage layout compatibility is implemented by the package `@openzeppelin/upgrades-core`.

The package exports a standalone interface that works with https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/using-the-compiler.html#compiler-input-and-output-json-description[Solidity input and output JSON objects].

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
import { UpgradeableContract } from '@openzeppelin/upgrades-core';
```

== UpgradeableContract

This class represents the implementation for an upgradeable contract and gives access to error reports.

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
new UpgradeableContract(name, solcInput, solcOutput, opts?);
```

`name` is the name of the implementation contract as either a fully qualified name or contract name. If multiple contracts have the same name, you must use the fully qualified name e.g., `contracts/Bar.sol:Bar`.

`opts` is an object with options as defined in xref:api-hardhat-upgrades.adoc#common-options[Common Options].

TIP: In Hardhat, `solcInput` and `solcOutput` can be obtained from the Build Info file, which itself can be retrieved with `hre.artifacts.getBuildInfo`.

=== getErrorReport

Returns a report about errors pertaining to proxied contracts, e.g. the use of `selfdestruct`.

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
contract.getErrorReport()
```

=== getStorageUpgradeReport

Compares the storage layout of an upgradeable contract with that of a proposed upgrade. Receives as an argument another instance of `UpgradeableContract`.

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
contract.getStorageUpgradeReport(upgradedContract)
```

== Report

An object that represents the results of an analysis.

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```typescript
interface Report {
  ok: boolean;
  explain(color?: boolean): string;
}
```

The field `ok` is `false` if any errors were found, and `true` otherwise.

The method `explain()` will return a message explaining the errors in detail, if any.
