packages/core/src/storage/report.test.ts.md, before:

# Snapshot report for `src/storage/report.test.ts`

The actual snapshot is saved in `report.test.ts.snap`.

Generated by [AVA](https://avajs.dev).

## structs

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
        - Deleted \`s1\`␊
          > Keep the variable even if unused␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus␊
        - Added \`z\`␊
          ␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In mapping(uint256 => struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus)␊
        - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
        - Deleted \`s1\`␊
          > Keep the variable even if unused␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`a1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus[10]␊
        - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
        - Deleted \`s1\`␊
          > Keep the variable even if unused␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`a2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus[10]␊
        - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus␊
        - Added \`z\`␊
          ␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data3\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Changed␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Changed␊
        - Upgraded \`x\` to an incompatible type␊
          - Bad upgrade from uint256 to string␊
        - Upgraded \`s1\` to an incompatible type␊
          - Bad upgrade from string to uint256␊
        - Upgraded \`inner\` to an incompatible type␊
          - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.StructInner to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.StructInnerPlus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.StructInnerPlus␊
        - Added \`z\`␊
          `

## enums

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V1.Enum1 to enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Delete␊
      - In enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Delete␊
        - Deleted \`B\`␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V1.Enum1 to enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Replace␊
      - In enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Replace␊
        - Replaced \`B\` with \`X\`␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data3\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V1.Enum1 to enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Insert␊
      - In enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Insert␊
        - Inserted \`X\`␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data4\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V1.Enum1 to enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2TooLarge␊
        Different representation sizes`

## obvious mismatch

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from uint256 to string␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`s1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_ObviousMismatch_V1.S to uint256␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`a1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from uint256[] to mapping(uint256 => uint256)`

## array

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad array resize from 20 to 15␊
        Size cannot decrease␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad array resize from 20 to 25␊
        Size cannot increase here␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x3\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from fixed to dynamic size array␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x4\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from fixed to dynamic size array␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In mapping(uint256 => uint256[15])␊
        - Bad array resize from 20 to 15␊
          Size cannot decrease`

## mapping

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In mapping(uint256 => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from uint256[10] to uint256␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In key of mapping(bool => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from undefined to bool`

## mapping enum key

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In key of mapping(enum E2_Bad => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from enum E1 to enum E2_Bad␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m3\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In key of mapping(enum E1 => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from uint8 to enum E1␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m4\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In key of mapping(uint256 => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from contract Storage1 to uint256`

## rename

> Snapshot 1

    'file.sol:1: Renamed `x2` to `renamed`'

## replace

> Snapshot 1

    'file.sol:1: Replaced `x2` with `renamed` of incompatible type'

Commit message:

Support function types in storage layout (#529)
Co-authored-by: gwillen <gabewillen@gmai.com>
Co-authored-by: Francisco Giordano <frangio.1@gmail.com>

packages/core/src/storage/report.test.ts.md, after:

# Snapshot report for `src/storage/report.test.ts`

The actual snapshot is saved in `report.test.ts.snap`.

Generated by [AVA](https://avajs.dev).

## structs

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
        - Deleted \`s1\`␊
          > Keep the variable even if unused␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus␊
        - Added \`z\`␊
          ␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In mapping(uint256 => struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus)␊
        - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
        - Deleted \`s1\`␊
          > Keep the variable even if unused␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`a1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus[10]␊
        - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Minus␊
        - Deleted \`s1\`␊
          > Keep the variable even if unused␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`a2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus[10]␊
        - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Plus␊
        - Added \`z\`␊
          ␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data3\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.Struct1 to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Changed␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.Struct2Changed␊
        - Upgraded \`x\` to an incompatible type␊
          - Bad upgrade from uint256 to string␊
        - Upgraded \`s1\` to an incompatible type␊
          - Bad upgrade from string to uint256␊
        - Upgraded \`inner\` to an incompatible type␊
          - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V1.StructInner to struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.StructInnerPlus␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_Struct_V2_Bad.StructInnerPlus␊
        - Added \`z\`␊
          `

## enums

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V1.Enum1 to enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Delete␊
      - In enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Delete␊
        - Deleted \`B\`␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V1.Enum1 to enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Replace␊
      - In enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Replace␊
        - Replaced \`B\` with \`X\`␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data3\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V1.Enum1 to enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Insert␊
      - In enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2Insert␊
        - Inserted \`X\`␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`data4\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V1.Enum1 to enum StorageUpgrade_Enum_V2_Bad.Enum2TooLarge␊
        Different representation sizes`

## obvious mismatch

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from uint256 to string␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`s1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_ObviousMismatch_V1.S to uint256␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`a1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from uint256[] to mapping(uint256 => uint256)`

## function visibility change

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`s1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from struct StorageUpgrade_FunctionType_Visibility_V1.S to struct StorageUpgrade_FunctionType_Visibility_V2_Bad.S␊
      - In struct StorageUpgrade_FunctionType_Visibility_V2_Bad.S␊
        - Upgraded \`m\` to an incompatible type␊
          - Bad upgrade from function () to function () external␊
            Different visibility`

## array

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad array resize from 20 to 15␊
        Size cannot decrease␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad array resize from 20 to 25␊
        Size cannot increase here␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x3\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from fixed to dynamic size array␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`x4\` to an incompatible type␊
      - Bad upgrade from fixed to dynamic size array␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In mapping(uint256 => uint256[15])␊
        - Bad array resize from 20 to 15␊
          Size cannot decrease`

## mapping

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m1\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In mapping(uint256 => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from uint256[10] to uint256␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In key of mapping(bool => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from undefined to bool`

## mapping enum key

> Snapshot 1

    `file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m2\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In key of mapping(enum E2_Bad => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from enum E1 to enum E2_Bad␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m3\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In key of mapping(enum E1 => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from uint8 to enum E1␊
    ␊
    file.sol:1: Upgraded \`m4\` to an incompatible type␊
      - In key of mapping(uint256 => uint256)␊
        - Bad upgrade from contract Storage1 to uint256`

## rename

> Snapshot 1

    'file.sol:1: Renamed `x2` to `renamed`'

## replace

> Snapshot 1

    'file.sol:1: Replaced `x2` with `renamed` of incompatible type'
